Landing Simulator Version 1 (run lander.m)

Test 1a: Set Thrust to 0N, compare numerical with SUVAT results, should match.

Calculated Values From Graph (when rocket lands)
v = -385m/s       v = -386m/s
t = 8.76s         t = 8.8s

Analytical values match with values from graph. Behaviour is as expected: with no thrust
the rocket falls from the sky and quickly crashes within 9 seconds.



Test 1b: Set Thrust equal to weight, forces should balance,
so acceleration should always equal 0m/s^2.

Initially, acceleration is equal to -9.81m/s^2 because the initial acceleration
is calculated before the initial thrust. After that, acceleration is always
equal to 0m/s^2.

Behaviour is as expected: with thrust equal to weight, there is no resultant
force, so the rocket falls with constant velocity and no acceleration.



Test 1c: Set Thrust to slightly more than or less than weight, observe how this
affects acceleration and the time the lander hits the ground, compare this with
SUVAT results, should match.

Calculated Values From Graph (when rocket lands, thrust=0.5*weight)
a = -4.91m/s^2    a = -4.91m/s^2
t = 9.29s         t = 9.30s

Analytical values match with values from graph. Behaviour is as expected: with thrust
less than weight, the rocket falls from the sky and quickly crashes.



Test 2a: Set Thrust to 50000N, check if fuel burns at the expected rate, should
match analytical calculations.

Calculated Value for when fuel runs out: 30s
From Graph: 30s

Analytical value matches with value from graph. Behaviour is as expected, fuel
burns at a constant rate and thrust becomes 0 when all fuel is burnt.



Test 2b: Check graph to see if fuel mass ever goes negative, it should decrease
as fuel is burnt and stay at 0.

The minimum point on the fuel mass-time graph is 0kg, before this point the
fuel decreases linearly, and after this point it remains constant at 0.

This matches the expected results.



Test 2c: Set thrust to -50000N and check if the simulator behaves correctly,
a negative thrust shouldn't change how the fuel mass varies, but it should affect
the acceleration, velocity and height graphs.

The fuel mass graph stays the same, but the rocket reaches the ground quicker,
this makes sense since the thrust if pushing the rocket downwards towards the
ground, so the results match the expectation.



Test 2d: Make sure the physics makes sense by comparing total energy at the top
(potential) with total energy when it reaches the ground (kinetic).

GPE at peak height = 182 MJ
KE when it reaches the ground = 182 MJ

This matches expectations since the total energy at the peak height and at
the point where it lands are equal.



Test 3a: Use the graph to work out the time when the rocket reaches its maximum
height and explain the velocity and acceleration values at this time. I'm
that the maximum height will be reach shortly after when the fuel runs out,
the velocity will be 0 at this time, and the acceleration will be negative.

Time: 45.1s (fuel runs out at 30s)
Velocity: -0.625 m/s
Acceleration: -9.81 m/s^2

All 3 values match expectations. The fact that acceleration=g also makes
sense because since velocity is approximately 0, the drag is also 0, and
thrust is also 0 because the fuel has run out, so the only force acting on
the rocket is gravity.



Test 3b: Compare the simulation behaviour (both acceleration and velocity)
long after fuel runs out with analytical solutions, should match.

Analytical terminal velocity: -121 m/s
The graph approaches -121 m/s as time increases, which matches the
expectations.

Acceleration approaches 0 m/s^2 as expected.

The acceleration suddenly changes when fuel runs out because the thrust
goes from 50000N to 0, which means that the total force acting on the
rocket decreases by 50000N, and acceleration is proportional to force
(assuming constant mass, which is fair to assume at the point where fuel
mass reaches 0).



Test 4: Set the thrust to be proportional to the error (difference between
velocity and target velocity) plus a constant value equal to the weight of
the rocket so the thrust cancels out the weight. This should cause the
rocket to stop its descent and stay still until the fuel runs out, then it
drop to the ground and crash.
The observations fit these expectations.







